README.md, before:

rabbitmq-zabbix
=======================

Template and checks to monitor rabbitmq queues and server via Zabbix.

## SOURCE: 
https://github.com/jasonmcintosh/rabbitmq-zabbix

## WHY:
Because the SNMP plugin isn't an officially supported plugin, and rabbitmqctl based monitors are REALLY slow in comparison.

## WHAT:
Set of python scripts, zabbix template, and associated data to do autodiscovery

## HOW:
1. Install the files into /etc/zabbix/ folder, change permissions to Zabbix.
2. Setup configuration (see below)
3. Import the template to your zabbix server
4. Make sure zabbix_sender is installed
5. **WARNING** Watch your process timeout.  I hit an issue with the amount of data and queues in rabbit where processing the results took longer than 3 seconds - that's the default timeout for the agent to kill a process.  If I can switch to a file based push instead of calling send for each item, this will hopefully reduce the time to send even further
6. Restart the local zabbix agent


## CONFIGURATION:
You may optionally create a .rab.auth file in the scripts/ directory. This file allows you to change default parameters. The format is `VARIABLE=value`, one per line:
The default values are as follows:

    USERNAME=guest
    PASSWORD=guest
    CONF=/etc/zabbix/zabbix_agent.conf

You can also add a filter in this file to restrict which queues are monitored.
This item is a JSON-encoded string. The format provides some flexibility for
its use. You can either provide a single object or a list of objects to filter.
The available keys are: status, node, name, consumers, vhost, durable,
exclusive_consumer_tag, auto_delete, memory, policy

For example, the following filter could find all the durable queues:
`FILTER='{"durable": true}'`

To only use the durable queues for a given vhost, the filter would be:
`FILTER='{"durable": true, "vhost": "mine"}'`

To supply a list of queue names, the filter would be:
`FILTER='[{"name": "mytestqueuename"}, {"name": "queue2"}]'`

At some point the filters may be improved to include regular expressions or "ignore these queues"

## CHANGES
* Updated to use zabbix_sender to push data on request to an item request.  This is similar to how the FromDual MySQL Zabbix stuff works and the concept was pulled from their templates.
* Updated the filters to handle a list of objects


## Ideas for the future?
Add a local cache of the results (may be overkill for RabbitMQ).
Feel free to submit changes or ideas - mcintoshj@gmail.com

Repo:
https://github.com/jasonmcintosh/rabbitmq-zabbix

## Definite kudos to some of the other developers around the web.  In particular,
* Python Scripts: https://github.com/kmcminn/rabbit-nagios
* Base idea for the Rabbit template:  https://github.com/alfss/zabbix-rabbitmq
* Also need to thank Lewis Franklin https://github.com/brolewis for his contributions!

Commit message:

Updated docs on global filtering

README.md, after:

rabbitmq-zabbix
=======================

Template and checks to monitor rabbitmq queues and server via Zabbix.

## SOURCE: 
https://github.com/jasonmcintosh/rabbitmq-zabbix

## WHY:
Because the SNMP plugin isn't an officially supported plugin, and rabbitmqctl based monitors are REALLY slow in comparison.

## WHAT:
Set of python scripts, zabbix template, and associated data to do autodiscovery

## HOW:
1. Install the files into /etc/zabbix/ folder, change permissions to Zabbix.
2. Setup configuration (see below)
3. Import the template to your zabbix server
4. Make sure zabbix_sender is installed
5. **WARNING** Watch your process timeout.  I hit an issue with the amount of data and queues in rabbit where processing the results took longer than 3 seconds - that's the default timeout for the agent to kill a process.  If I can switch to a file based push instead of calling send for each item, this will hopefully reduce the time to send even further
6. Restart the local zabbix agent


## CONFIGURATION:
You may optionally create a .rab.auth file in the scripts/ directory. This file allows you to change default parameters. The format is `VARIABLE=value`, one per line:
The default values are as follows:

    USERNAME=guest
    PASSWORD=guest
    CONF=/etc/zabbix/zabbix_agent.conf

You can also add a filter in this file to restrict which queues are monitored.
This item is a JSON-encoded string. The format provides some flexibility for
its use. You can either provide a single object or a list of objects to filter.
The available keys are: status, node, name, consumers, vhost, durable,
exclusive_consumer_tag, auto_delete, memory, policy

For example, the following filter could find all the durable queues:
`FILTER='{"durable": true}'`

To only use the durable queues for a given vhost, the filter would be:
`FILTER='{"durable": true, "vhost": "mine"}'`

To supply a list of queue names, the filter would be:
`FILTER='[{"name": "mytestqueuename"}, {"name": "queue2"}]'`

## Low level discovery of queues, including GLOBAL REGULAR EXPRESSIONS:
`https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/3.0/manual/regular_expressions`
The low level discovery, which is what determines what queues to be monitored, requires with the existing template that a filter be defined as a global regular expression.  You can modify the template to do it in other ways, e.g. with a host level macro (NOT TESTED), or override it per host.  Or any number of methods.  But without a filter, NO queues will be discovered, JUST server level items will show up, and your checks will fail.

At some point the filters may be improved to include regular expressions or "ignore these queues"

## CHANGES
* Updated to use zabbix_sender to push data on request to an item request.  This is similar to how the FromDual MySQL Zabbix stuff works and the concept was pulled from their templates.
* Updated the filters to handle a list of objects


## Ideas for the future?
Add a local cache of the results (may be overkill for RabbitMQ).
Feel free to submit changes or ideas - mcintoshj@gmail.com

Repo:
https://github.com/jasonmcintosh/rabbitmq-zabbix

## Definite kudos to some of the other developers around the web.  In particular,
* Python Scripts: https://github.com/kmcminn/rabbit-nagios
* Base idea for the Rabbit template:  https://github.com/alfss/zabbix-rabbitmq
* Also need to thank Lewis Franklin https://github.com/brolewis for his contributions!
